README.md, before:

# LSL java bindings

The Java interface for the lab streaming layer should run on Window/Linux/MacOS, 32/64 bit.
The main class is `edu.ucsd.sccn.LSL`, which provides all necessary functions and sub-classes.
See `examples/` for examples and `javadoc/` for API documentation.

To use this interface in your program, you need to import the class `edu.ucsd.sccn.LSL`,
include the `jna-4.2.2.jar` package in your classpath, and have the native liblsl library 
for your platform in path where it is found (e.g., your application's root directory, 
or a system folder). This has been found to work with a variety of installations and operating 
systems.

If you get an error about some class def not found: On some systems you may have to unzip 
the `jna-4.2.2.jar` file to make sure that the libraries contained in it are found by Java.

If you an error like: `java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: Unable to load library 'liblsl64.dll'`: 
`Native library (win32-x86-64/liblsl64.dll) not found in resource path`: then you need to make 
sure that your liblsl library is on a path found by the java runtime, e.g., in the path where 
you execute the java command. One location where it will always be found is a system library 
path, e.g., `Windows/system32` (not SysWOW64) on Windows; this should help during debugging.

To compile and run the examples:
Download [jna-4.2.2.jar](http://central.maven.org/maven2/net/java/dev/jna/jna/4.2.2/jna-4.2.2.jar) 
to `LSL/liblsl-Java`.

Build the LSL library (`liblsl64.dll`, for example) for your system, and copy it to
`LSL/liblsl-Java`

`LSL/liblsl-Java$ javac -cp jna-4.2.2.jar src/edu/ucsd/sccn/LSL.java src/examples/SendData.java `
where SendData.java is the example that you are interested in.

`LSL/liblsl-Java$ java -Djna.nosys=true -cp "jna-4.2.2.jar:src" examples.SendData` (on Linux)
`LSL/liblsl-Java> java -cp "jna-4.2.2.jar;src" examples.SendData` (on Windows, yes the : changes to a ;)

## Java Example Programs: Basic to Advanced

These examples show how to transmit a numeric multi-channel time series through LSL:

  * [Sending a multi-channel time series into LSL.](src/examples/SendData.java)
  * [Receiving a multi-channel time series from LSL.](src/examples/ReceiveData.java)

The following examples show how to transmit data in form of chunks instead of samples, which can
be more convenient.

  * [Sending a multi-channel time series in chunks.](src/examples/SendDataInChunks.java)
  * [Receiving a multi-channel time series in chunks.](src/examples/ReceiveDataInChunks.java)

These examples show a special-purpose use case that is mostly relevant for stimulus-presentation
programs or other applications that want to emit 'event' markers or other application state.
The stream here is single-channel and has irregular sampling rate, but the value per channel is a
string:

  * [Sending string-formatted irregular streams.](src/examples/SendStringMarkers.java)
  * [Receiving string-formatted irregular streams.](src/examples/ReceiveStringMarkers.java)

The last example shows how to attach properly formatted meta-data to a stream, and how to read it
out again at the receiving end.
While meta-data is strictly optional, it is very useful to make streams self-describing.
LSL has adopted the convention to name meta-data fields according to the XDF file format
specification whenever the content type matches (for example EEG, Gaze, MoCap, VideoRaw, etc);
the spec is [here](https://github.com/sccn/xdf/wiki/Meta-Data).

Commit message:

Add reference to liblsl-Android to readme

README.md, after:

# LSL java bindings, traditional build

The Java interface for the lab streaming layer should run on Window/Linux/MacOS, 32/64 bit.
The main class is `edu.ucsd.sccn.LSL`, which provides all necessary functions and sub-classes.
See `examples/` for examples and `javadoc/` for API documentation.

To use this interface in your program, you need to import the class `edu.ucsd.sccn.LSL`,
include the `jna-4.2.2.jar` package in your classpath, and have the native liblsl library 
for your platform in path where it is found (e.g., your application's root directory, 
or a system folder). This has been found to work with a variety of installations and operating 
systems.

If you get an error about some class def not found: On some systems you may have to unzip 
the `jna-4.2.2.jar` file to make sure that the libraries contained in it are found by Java.

If you an error like: `java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: Unable to load library 'liblsl64.dll'`: 
`Native library (win32-x86-64/liblsl64.dll) not found in resource path`: then you need to make 
sure that your liblsl library is on a path found by the java runtime, e.g., in the path where 
you execute the java command. One location where it will always be found is a system library 
path, e.g., `Windows/system32` (not SysWOW64) on Windows; this should help during debugging.

To compile and run the examples:
Download [jna-4.2.2.jar](http://central.maven.org/maven2/net/java/dev/jna/jna/4.2.2/jna-4.2.2.jar) 
to `LSL/liblsl-Java`.

Build the LSL library (`liblsl64.dll`, for example) for your system, and copy it to
`LSL/liblsl-Java`

`LSL/liblsl-Java$ javac -cp jna-4.2.2.jar src/edu/ucsd/sccn/LSL.java src/examples/SendData.java `
where SendData.java is the example that you are interested in.

`LSL/liblsl-Java$ java -Djna.nosys=true -cp "jna-4.2.2.jar:src" examples.SendData` (on Linux)
`LSL/liblsl-Java> java -cp "jna-4.2.2.jar;src" examples.SendData` (on Windows, yes the : changes to a ;)

# Gradle build for Android

The `build.gradle` is used to build a binary for Android devices and can be
used as part of the from the `liblsl-Android` project.

## Java Example Programs: Basic to Advanced

These examples show how to transmit a numeric multi-channel time series through LSL:

  * [Sending a multi-channel time series into LSL.](src/examples/SendData.java)
  * [Receiving a multi-channel time series from LSL.](src/examples/ReceiveData.java)

The following examples show how to transmit data in form of chunks instead of samples, which can
be more convenient.

  * [Sending a multi-channel time series in chunks.](src/examples/SendDataInChunks.java)
  * [Receiving a multi-channel time series in chunks.](src/examples/ReceiveDataInChunks.java)

These examples show a special-purpose use case that is mostly relevant for stimulus-presentation
programs or other applications that want to emit 'event' markers or other application state.
The stream here is single-channel and has irregular sampling rate, but the value per channel is a
string:

  * [Sending string-formatted irregular streams.](src/examples/SendStringMarkers.java)
  * [Receiving string-formatted irregular streams.](src/examples/ReceiveStringMarkers.java)

The last example shows how to attach properly formatted meta-data to a stream, and how to read it
out again at the receiving end.
While meta-data is strictly optional, it is very useful to make streams self-describing.
LSL has adopted the convention to name meta-data fields according to the XDF file format
specification whenever the content type matches (for example EEG, Gaze, MoCap, VideoRaw, etc);
the spec is [here](https://github.com/sccn/xdf/wiki/Meta-Data).
